post for reproducible config (#307)
conan-io/conan-io.github.io: _posts/2026-02-17-Reproducible-Configuration-Conan.markdown

Lockfiles work well with ``conanconfig.yml`` files too. The files can contain a valid version range ``myconf_a/[>=1 <2]`` while the lockfile can guarantee the reproducibility of a specific version and recipe revision in that range.

## Effect on package_id

By using the core.package_id:config_mode setting, you can actually make your configuration packages part of the package_id calculation for every package that is built or used with that configuration. For example if in ``global.conf``  we define:

```ini
# in your global.conf
core.package_id:config_mode=minor_mode
```

And we install the following configuration package:

```bash
$ conan config install-pkg my_conf/1.2.0
```

Then, all packages binaries ``package_id`` will contain and depend on ``my_conf/1.2.Z``. That means that creating, uploading and ``conan config install-pkg my_conf/1.2.1`` will not require to build new binaries. But if we created and configured ``my_conf/1.3.0`` instead, that will automatically require building new binaries for all packages.

> This is a feature to be used cautiously, as in general, the Conan binary model with settings, options and dependencies is good and efficient to avoid unnecessary re-builds. But if there are aspects in the environment that haven’t been possible to model in the settings and options model, using this ``core.package_id:config_mode`` could be a valid approach that provides safer guarantees and better traceability of the configuration that was used to build each individual package binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consequently, all package binaries will include ``my_conf/1.2.Z`` in their package ID calculation. This ensures that minor updates, such as installing ``my_conf/1.2.1``, will not trigger new builds. However, moving to a version like my_conf/1.3.0 will require rebuilding all packages.

While Conan's binary model of settings, options and dependencies is generally the most efficient way to avoid unnecessary rebuilds, **this feature should be used with caution**. It is a valid approach when your environment contains variables that cannot be captured by the standard model, providing safer guarantees and better traceability for the specific configuration used to build each package binary.
```
